# Uncrewed Remote Underwater Robotic Sediment Core Sampler

Sediment has a significant impact on social, economic, and environmental systems. With the need for an effective sediment management and monitoring systems growing more important, a method for precisely and reproducibly obtaining sediment samples that represent the actual environment is essential for water resource management and researchers across aquatic domains (such as lakes, rivers, reservoirs, mine drainage ponds, and wastewater lagoons). To meet this need, robotic approaches for sediment sampling have been introduced. However, they are not tailored to a sediment sampling method and do not focus on the quality of the sediment sample. In this paper, we introduce an uncrewed sediment sampling system based on the unmanned surface vehicle (USV) and underwater sediment sampler (USS) to collect sediment samples and with the ability to comprehensively study sample quality from surface-water environments. The main objective of the USV is to carry the USS to the desired sampling area and then maintain its position while launching the USS to the bottom of the body of water and sampling the sediment. The core sampling method was adopted for the USS to extend the use of the sampled sediment by minimizing the disturbance while sampling. We integrated highly flexible sediment sampling patterns and self-adaptability mechanisms to investigate the samples’ reliability and quality, and tested the effectiveness of the flexible mechanisms. Through extensive experiments, we evaluated and validated the performance of the sediment sampling system in both lab and real environments and optimized the operation of the system as a whole.
